Create Documentation for Enterprise Rest API [DEX-78] (#1097)
hazelcast/hz-docs: docs/modules/maintain-cluster/pages/enterprise-rest-api.adoc

= ENTERPRISE REST API
[[enterprise-rest-api]]

Hazelcast Enterprise provides a REST API that allows you to access your data
structures and cluster using the HTTP/HTTPS protocols.

You can interact with the API using various tools and platforms such as cURL, REST clients (like Postman and Insomnia), or programming languages with HTTP request libraries or built-in support.

> The REST API also includes a Swagger page available at http://<host>:<port>/swagger-ui/index.html for making requests.

Author: fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/fc1ae49fe122c52714492f5263a82f3d5d930263

NOTE: In this document, all the request examples are demonstrated using cURL.

== Enabling REST API

REST service is **disabled** in the configuration by default.

> You should enable it on your rest configuration as shown in the below declarative example:

Author: fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/fc1ae49fe122c52714492f5263a82f3d5d930263

`8443` is the default port for REST API. To change it, you can use the rest configuration as shown in the below declarative example:

[tabs] 
==== 
XML:: 
+ 
-- 
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <rest enabled="true">
        <port>8080</port>
    </rest>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
    port: 8080
----
====

== Authentication

REST supports simple authentication. To configure authentication in the REST API, you should complete the following steps:

* **#Enable Security:#**
You need to enable the security to use REST API.

* **#Configure Rest Realm:#**
You need to introduce a REST realm as the authentication mechanism. This realm will handle user authentication using a simple method based on username and password.

* **#Setup Users and Roles:#**
You should identify users and their roles within the REST realm.

* **#Configure AccessControlService:#**
To configure `AccessControlService`, you should provide a factory class that creates an instance of the service. `AccessControlService` delegates authentication to the configured security realm. You can either create a custom factory class, or use the default implementation.

> For the default implementation, you can use `DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory`, to produce `DefaultAccessControlService`. Authorization decisions in this service are based on three predefined roles: `reader`, `writer` and `admin`.

Author: fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/fc1ae49fe122c52714492f5263a82f3d5d930263

> Following declarative example includes all the steps:

Reviewer: Can you also describe similar to this:

The rest client needs to obtain a token based on this authentication. The token request will include the username and password as below and the client will get a token for one of the roles. For the following requests this token will be used until it expires.

Author: I separated Authentication part in 2 sections and explained it in second section. Could you please take a look at it?

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <security enabled="true">
        <realms>
            <realm name="restRealm">
                <authentication>
                    <simple>
                        <user username="restuser" password="restsecret">
                            <role>admin</role>
                        </user>
                    </simple>
                </authentication>
                <access-control-service>
                    <factory-class-name>com.hazelcast.internal.rest.access.DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory</factory-class-name>
                    <properties>

>                         <property name="decisionFile">/opt/acl.xml</property>

Author: I removed the properties section since this is for custom implementations of the factory class.

                    </properties>
                </access-control-service>
            </realm>
        </realms>
    </security>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  security:
    enabled: true
    realms:
      - name: restRealm
        authentication:
          simple:
            users:
              - username: 'restuser'
                password: 'restpassword'
                roles:
                  - admin
        access-control-service:
          factory-class-name: com.hazelcast.internal.rest.access.DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory
          properties:
            decisionFile: '/opt/acl.xml'
----
====

== HTTPS Support
You can configure SSL in the REST API. The configuration options are available to set up SSL as shown in

> the below declarative example:

Reviewer: Can you add this info:

We use Spring Boot underneath to enable Spring web services, and all the SSL related options correspond to the underlying Spring Boot SSL support capabilities. 

The SSL configuration of the REST server is completely different from Hazelcast SSL configuration which has different configuration settings.

Author: fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/fc1ae49fe122c52714492f5263a82f3d5d930263

            <certificate>/path/to/certificate</certificate>
            <certificate-key>/path/to/certificate-key</certificate-key>
            <trust-certificate>/path/to/trust-certificate</trust-certificate>
            <trust-certificate-key>/path/to/trust-certificate-key</trust-certificate-key>
        </ssl>
    </rest>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
    ssl:
      enabled: true
      client-auth: NEED
      ciphers: TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA, TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
      enabled-protocols: TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3
      key-alias: myKeyAlias
      key-password: myKeyPassword
      key-store: /path/to/keystore
      key-store-password: myKeyStorePassword
      key-store-type: JKS
      key-store-provider: SUN
      trust-store: /path/to/truststore
      trust-store-password: myTrustStorePassword
      trust-store-type: JKS
      trust-store-provider: SUN
      protocol: TLS
      certificate: /path/to/certificate
      certificate-key: /path/to/certificate-key
      trust-certificate: /path/to/trust-certificate
      trust-certificate-key: /path/to/trust-certificate-key
----
====

== JWT Based Authorization

> After a successful authentication by making request to token endpoint, you will receive a short-living JWT token with assigned role names as a claim for authorization checks in subsequent REST calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a successful authentication by making request to token endpoint(`https://localhost:8443/token`), you will receive a short-living JWT token with assigned role names as a claim for authorization checks in subsequent REST calls. 
```

Author: I refer the "Obtaining a Token" section here at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/fc1ae49fe122c52714492f5263a82f3d5d930263

Token issued by one member is not trusted by other members.

Tokens are valid for 15 minutes by default. To change it you can use the rest configuration as shown in the below declarative example:

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <rest enabled="true">
        <token-validity-seconds>300</token-validity-seconds>
    </rest>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
    token-validity-seconds: 300
----
====

== Obtaining a Token

To obtain a token, you should send a `POST` request to the token endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token`. The request should include the `username` and `password` in JSON format. If authentication successful, the response will contain a token.

Example request using cURL:

[source,shell]
----
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8443/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "username": "restuser",
  "password": "restpassword"
}'
----

== GET/POST/DELETE HTTP Request Examples

All the requests in the REST API can return one of the following types of responses.

* Successful Void/Boolean response which does not have body.

> * Successful response which returns data in JSON format. For example:

Reviewer: You can add:

We always use JSON format for the response body content as the standard.

Author: I think we already say it with this sentence. We didn't specify and response type other then which includes JSON body. What do you think?

[source,json]
----
{
  "nodeState": "ACTIVE",
  "clusterState": "ACTIVE",
  "numberOfMembers": 1
}
----

* Error response in JSON format. For example:
[source,json]
----
{
  "statusCode": 400,
  "message": "Please provide a valid value."
}
----

> === Retrieving Cluster Status

Reviewer: Can you put a section about how the user can use the swagger pages?
We can describe that all the available APIs are documented at the swagger pages based on their categories together with examples. You can also try the APIs from the swagger ui page.

After this detail swagger description, and may be an example swagger ui snapshot, we may not need each individual endpoint described here but refer to the swagger page for each API, what do you think? This way we do not repeat the same info at the swagger page and no need for duplicate maintenance.

Author: fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/209e01b9b0a9ff8f628a99d596734a645d619882

Example request using cURL:

[source,shell]
----
curl -X 'GET' \
  'http://localhost:8443/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <JWT Token>'
----

It returns the following response if successful:

[source,json]
----
{
  "state": "ACTIVE"
}
----

=== Changing Cluster State

You can make a POST request to endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state` to change your cluster state. You should provide new state within the request body in JSON format. Valid states are `ACTIVE, NO_MIGRATION, FROZEN, PASSIVE`.

Example request using cURL:

[source,shell]
----
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8443/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer Bearer <JWT Token>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "state": "PASSIVE"
}'
----

* It returns 200 response without body if successful.
* It returns 400 response if provided state is not a valid cluster state. For example:

[source,json]
----
{
  "statusCode": 400,
  "message": "FOOBAR is not a valid ClusterState. Please provide one of the valid values: [ACTIVE, NO_MIGRATION, FROZEN, PASSIVE]"
}
----

=== Destroying a CP Group

> You can make a DELETE request to endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cp/groups/+{group-name}+` to unconditionally destroy the given active CP group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can make a DELETE request to endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cp/groups/{group-name}` to unconditionally destroy the given active CP group.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/fc1ae49fe122c52714492f5263a82f3d5d930263

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <security enabled="true">
        <realms>
            <realm name="restRealm">
                <authentication>
                    <simple>
                        <user username="restuser" password="restsecret">
                            <role>admin</role>
                        </user>
                    </simple>
                </authentication>
                <access-control-service>
                    <factory-class-name>com.hazelcast.internal.rest.access.DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory</factory-class-name>
                </access-control-service>
            </realm>
        </realms>
    </security>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  security:
    enabled: true
    realms:
      - name: restRealm
        authentication:
          simple:
            users:
              - username: 'restuser'
                password: 'restpassword'
                roles:
                  - admin
        access-control-service:
          factory-class-name: com.hazelcast.internal.rest.access.DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory
----
====

=== Authentication Process

> To authenticate to the REST API, the REST client must obtain a token. See the <<obtaining-a-token, Obtaining a Token section>> for details. The token request requires a username and password and the role(s) assigned to the user are included in the token as claims. You can use the token until it expires.

Reviewer: Please add this:

You use the token at the header .... for each subsequent REST API call so that the call is authorized appropriately. Failing to send a valid token in the header, causes the call to be rejected by ... error response.

Author: fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/e4c03741e15cfb67bfa7ce377a0dbb1f94bfab7a

      trust-store-password: myTrustStorePassword
      trust-store-type: JKS
      trust-store-provider: SUN
      protocol: TLS
      certificate: /path/to/certificate
      certificate-key: /path/to/certificate-key
      trust-certificate: /path/to/trust-certificate
      trust-certificate-key: /path/to/trust-certificate-key
----
====

== JWT Based Authorization

After a successful authentication by making request to token endpoint (see the <<obtaining-a-token, Obtaining a Token section>> for details), you will receive a short-living JWT token with assigned role names as a claim for authorization checks in subsequent REST calls.

Token issued by one member is not trusted by other members.

Tokens are valid for 15 minutes by default. To change it you can use the rest configuration as shown in the below declarative example:

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <rest enabled="true">
        <token-validity-seconds>300</token-validity-seconds>
    </rest>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
    token-validity-seconds: 300
----
====

[#obtaining-a-token]
== Obtaining a Token

> To obtain a token, you should send a `POST` request to the token endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token`.The request should include the `username` and `password` in JSON format.If authentication successful, the response will contain a token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain a token, you should send a `POST` request to the token endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token`.The request should include the `username` and `password` in JSON format. If authentication is successful, the response will contain a valid token for the expiry duration.
```

Author: fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/e4c03741e15cfb67bfa7ce377a0dbb1f94bfab7a

Example request using cURL:

[source,shell]
----
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8443/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "username": "restuser",
  "password": "restpassword"
}'
----

> 

Reviewer: can you also add the example respone?

Author: fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/e4c03741e15cfb67bfa7ce377a0dbb1f94bfab7a

> = ENTERPRISE REST API

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/0a61d1dbdb9d2a2d28a777f0c4d371bb49f2b56e

> [[enterprise-rest-api]]

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/0a61d1dbdb9d2a2d28a777f0c4d371bb49f2b56e

> Hazelcast Enterprise provides a REST API that allows you to access your data

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/0a61d1dbdb9d2a2d28a777f0c4d371bb49f2b56e

structures and cluster using the HTTP/HTTPS protocols.

> You can interact with the API using various tools and platforms such as cURL, REST clients (like Postman and Insomnia), or programming languages with HTTP request libraries or built-in support.

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/0a61d1dbdb9d2a2d28a777f0c4d371bb49f2b56e

> The REST API also includes a Swagger page available at http://<host>:<port>/swagger-ui/index.html for making requests.<host> is the server running the REST server and <port> is the rest server port. The Swagger page provides information about each endpoint, including required parameters, request and response structures and types, potential response codes, and example responses. You can use this page to easily navigate and test different API calls directly from the interface.

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/0a61d1dbdb9d2a2d28a777f0c4d371bb49f2b56e

> NOTE: In this document, all the request examples are demonstrated using cURL.

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/0a61d1dbdb9d2a2d28a777f0c4d371bb49f2b56e

> 

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/0a61d1dbdb9d2a2d28a777f0c4d371bb49f2b56e

== Enabling REST API

> WARNING: **hazelcast-enterprise-rest-<VERSION>.jar** should exist at the classpath of the server to use REST API.

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/0a61d1dbdb9d2a2d28a777f0c4d371bb49f2b56e

> WARNING: **hazelcast-enterprise-rest-<VERSION>.jar** should exist at the classpath of the server to use REST API.

Reviewer 2: > NOTE: If you are using Hazelcast's xref:getting-started:editions.adoc#slim-distribution[slim distribution], you must add `hazelcast-enterprise-rest-{full-version}.jar` to your member's classpath to use the REST API. If you use the full distribution, there is no need for this step.

> REST service is **disabled** in the configuration by default.

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

> You should enable it on your rest configuration as shown in the below declarative example:

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

[tabs] 
==== 
XML:: 
+ 
-- 
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <rest enabled="true">
        ...
    </rest>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
----
====

> 

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

== Changing Default Port

> `8443` is the default port for REST API. To change it, you can use the rest configuration as shown in the below declarative example:

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

[tabs] 
==== 
XML:: 
+ 
-- 
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <rest enabled="true">
        <port>8080</port>
    </rest>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
    port: 8080
----
====

== Authentication

> 

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

=== Configuring Authentication

> REST supports simple authentication. To configure authentication in the REST API, you should complete the following steps:

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

* **#Enable Security:#**
You need to enable the security to use REST API.

* **#Configure Rest Realm:#**
You need to introduce a REST realm as the authentication mechanism. This realm will handle user authentication using a simple method based on username and password.

* **#Setup Users and Roles:#**
You should identify users and their roles within the REST realm.

* **#Configure AccessControlService:#**

> To configure `AccessControlService`, you should provide a factory class that creates an instance of the service. `AccessControlService` delegates authentication to the configured security realm. You can either create a custom factory class, or use the default implementation. For the default implementation, you can use `DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory`, to produce `DefaultAccessControlService`. Authorization decisions in this service are based on three predefined roles: `reader`, who can make requests via GET endpoints only; `writer`, who can make requests including GET, POST, and DELETE; and `admin`, who can make all requests and access admin-specific endpoints.

Reviewer 3: I am seeing another step in the REST demo by Isaac (which is defining the `security-realm` under the `rest` configuration). Please see my simplified content suggestion for all the steps above:

. Enable REST
. Define the security realm within the `rest` configuration
. Enable security
. Setup the following under the defined security realm within the `security` configuration:
.. Users and roles
.. Access control service

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

> Following declarative example includes all the steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following configuration example includes all the steps listed above.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
[source,xml]
----

> <hazelcast>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
<hazelcast>
    <rest enabled="true">
        <security-realm>restRealm</security-realm>
    </rest>
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

    <security enabled="true">
        <realms>
            <realm name="restRealm">
                <authentication>
                    <simple>
                        <user username="restuser" password="restsecret">
                            <role>admin</role>
                        </user>
                    </simple>
                </authentication>

>                 <access-control-service>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
                <access-control-service> <1>
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

                    <factory-class-name>com.hazelcast.internal.rest.access.DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory</factory-class-name>
                </access-control-service>
            </realm>
        </realms>
    </security>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----

> hazelcast:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
    security-realm: restRealm
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

  security:
    enabled: true
    realms:
      - name: restRealm
        authentication:
          simple:
            users:
              - username: 'restuser'
                password: 'restpassword'
                roles:
                  - admin

>         access-control-service:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
        access-control-service: <1>
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

          factory-class-name: com.hazelcast.internal.rest.access.DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory
----

> ====

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
====
<1> To configure `AccessControlService`, you should provide a factory class that creates an instance of the service. `AccessControlService` delegates authentication to the configured security realm. You can either create a custom factory class, or use the default implementation. For the default implementation, you can use `DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory`, to produce `DefaultAccessControlService`. Authorization decisions in this service are based on three predefined roles: `reader`, who can make requests via GET endpoints only; `writer`, who can make requests including GET, POST, and DELETE; and `admin`, who can make all requests and access admin-specific endpoints.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

NOTE: Besides the simple authentication, you can also use other authentication types such as LDAP. See xref:security:security-realms.adoc#authentication-configuration[Authentication Configuration] on how to configure different types within a security realm.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

Token issued by one member is not trusted by other members.

Tokens are valid for 15 minutes by default. To change it you can use the rest configuration as shown in the below declarative example:

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <rest enabled="true">
        <token-validity-seconds>300</token-validity-seconds>
    </rest>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
    token-validity-seconds: 300
----
====

[#obtaining-a-token]
== Obtaining a Token

To obtain a token, you should send a `POST` request to the token endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token`. The request should include the `username` and `password` in JSON format. If authentication is successful, the response will contain a valid token for the expiry duration.

Example request using cURL:

[source,shell]
----
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8443/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "username": "restuser",
  "password": "restpassword"
}'
----

It returns the following response if successful:

[source,json]
----
{
  "token": "<JWT Token>"
}
----

> 

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/0a61d1dbdb9d2a2d28a777f0c4d371bb49f2b56e

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <security enabled="true">
        <realms>
            <realm name="restRealm">
                <authentication>
                    <simple>
                        <user username="restuser" password="restsecret">
                            <role>admin</role>
                        </user>
                    </simple>
                </authentication>
                <access-control-service>
                    <factory-class-name>com.hazelcast.internal.rest.access.DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory</factory-class-name>
                </access-control-service>
            </realm>
        </realms>
    </security>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  security:
    enabled: true
    realms:
      - name: restRealm
        authentication:
          simple:
            users:
              - username: 'restuser'
                password: 'restpassword'
                roles:
                  - admin
        access-control-service:
          factory-class-name: com.hazelcast.internal.rest.access.DefaultAccessControlServiceFactory
----
====

=== Authentication Process

> To authenticate to the REST API, the REST client must obtain a token. See the <<obtaining-a-token, Obtaining a Token section>> for details. The token request requires a username and password and the role(s) assigned to the user are included in the token as claims. You can use the token until it expires. You use the token at the `Authorization` header for each subsequent REST API call so that the call is authorized appropriately. If a valid token is not included in the header, the API will respond with a `401 Unauthorized` error.

Reviewer 3: Couldn't understand the "and the role(s) assigned to the user are included in the token as claims". Does this mean the response (token) automatically knows the role for the user having the username/password configured within the security realm?

Author: When generating a token for a user, we include their assigned roles as a claims. When user sends a request with the token, we parse it to get their assigned roles.

> == HTTPS Support

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
== HTTPS Support

```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

> You can configure SSL in the REST API. We use Spring Boot underneath to enable Spring web services, and all the SSL related options correspond to the underlying Spring Boot SSL support capabilities.

Reviewer 3: Should we use "SSL" here (since the configuration element name is `ssl`), or "TLS/SSL"? cc: @kwart

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

            <certificate>/path/to/certificate</certificate>
            <certificate-key>/path/to/certificate-key</certificate-key>
            <trust-certificate>/path/to/trust-certificate</trust-certificate>
            <trust-certificate-key>/path/to/trust-certificate-key</trust-certificate-key>
        </ssl>
    </rest>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
    ssl:
      enabled: true
      client-auth: NEED
      ciphers: TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA, TLS_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
      enabled-protocols: TLSv1.2, TLSv1.3
      key-alias: myKeyAlias
      key-password: myKeyPassword
      key-store: /path/to/keystore
      key-store-password: myKeyStorePassword
      key-store-type: JKS
      key-store-provider: SUN
      trust-store: /path/to/truststore
      trust-store-password: myTrustStorePassword
      trust-store-type: JKS
      trust-store-provider: SUN
      protocol: TLS
      certificate: /path/to/certificate
      certificate-key: /path/to/certificate-key
      trust-certificate: /path/to/trust-certificate
      trust-certificate-key: /path/to/trust-certificate-key
----
====

== JWT Based Authorization

> After a successful authentication by making request to token endpoint (see the <<obtaining-a-token, Obtaining a Token section>> for details), you will receive a short-living JWT token with assigned role names as a claim for authorization checks in subsequent REST calls.

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

> Token issued by one member is not trusted by other members.

Author: Yes.

> Tokens are valid for 15 minutes by default. To change it you can use the rest configuration as shown in the below declarative example:

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

[tabs]
====
XML::
+
--
[source,xml]
----
<hazelcast>
    <rest enabled="true">
        <token-validity-seconds>300</token-validity-seconds>
    </rest>
</hazelcast>
----
--

YAML::
+
[source,yaml]
----
hazelcast:
  rest:
    enabled: true
    token-validity-seconds: 300
----
====

[#obtaining-a-token]
== Obtaining a Token

> To obtain a token, you should send a `POST` request to the token endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token`. The request should include the `username` and `password` in JSON format. If authentication is successful, the response will contain a valid token for the expiry duration.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To obtain a token, you send a `POST` request to the token endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token`. The request must include JSON-formatted `username` and `password` which you <<configuring-authentication, already configured>> . If the authentication is successful, you get a response which contains a valid token for the expiry duration.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

Example request using cURL:

[source,shell]
----
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8443/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/token' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "username": "restuser",
  "password": "restpassword"
}'
----

It returns the following response if successful:

[source,json]
----
{
  "token": "<JWT Token>"
}
----

> 

Reviewer 3: Maybe we should add information about unsuccessful responses - reasons and how to deal with them?

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

== Accessing the Swagger UI

Hazelcast REST API's Swagger UI provides information about each endpoint, including required parameters, request and response structures and types, potential response codes, and example responses. You can use this UI to easily navigate and test different API calls directly from the interface. To access it:

. Enable the REST API.
. Start a Hazelcast member.
. Go to `http://<host>:<port>/swagger-ui/index.html` where <host> and <port> are the running member's IP address/hostname and port, respectively.

The following is an example view:

> On the Swagger page, each endpoint is listed with a caret icon on the right side as shown below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

image::rest-api-swagger-listed-endpoints.png[]

> Click the caret icon to expand the details for the endpoint. For this example, let's expand the `GET /hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster` endpoint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
On the Swagger page, each endpoint is listed with a caret icon on the right side. Click the caret icon to expand the details for an endpoint. For this example, let's expand the `GET /hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster` endpoint.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

image::rest-api-swagger-expanding-an-endpoint.png[]

After expanding the endpoint, let's proceed to make a request. Click the `Try it out` button, enter the parameters (if any). There are no parameters for this example.

image::rest-api-swagger-clicking-execute-button.png[]

> Click the `Execute` button to send the request. You will see the response under "Server response" section as shown below. You can also view the executed Curl command in the "Curl" section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Click the `Execute` button to send the request. You can see the response in the **Server response** section as shown below. You can also see the executed cURL command in the **Curl** section.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

image::rest-api-swagger-clicking-try-it-out-button.png[]

== GET/POST/DELETE HTTP Request Examples

All the requests in the REST API can return one of the following response types.

> * Successful Void/Boolean response which does not have body.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Successful void/boolean response which does not have a body.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

* Successful response which returns data in JSON format. For example:

> [source,json]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
[source,json]
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

----
{
  "nodeState": "ACTIVE",
  "clusterState": "ACTIVE",
  "numberOfMembers": 1
}
----

* Error response in JSON format. For example:

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

> [source,json]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
+
[source,json]
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

----
{
  "statusCode": 400,
  "message": "Please provide a valid value."
}
----

=== Retrieving Cluster Status

> You can retrieve the status of your cluster by making a GET request to endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state`.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't it be `.../cluster/status` or just `.../cluster`?

and let's reword it as follows:

You can send a `GET` request to the endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/status` to retrieve the status of your cluster.

Author: We defined the `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster` endpoint to get the cluster status, the same as in the legacy REST API. Not sure if we should change it. Any comments @ihsandemir @emreyigit ?

Example request using cURL:

[source,shell]
----
curl -X 'GET' \

>   'http://localhost:8443/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster' \

Reviewer 3: `...cluster/status` ?

Author: I will change it if we decide to change the endpoint url.

  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <JWT Token>'
----

It returns the following response if successful:

[source,json]
----
{
  "members": [
    {
      "address": "[192.168.0.24]:5701",
      "liteMember": false,
      "localMember": true,
      "uuid": "3d8b9c35-a35f-461a-9e7f-d64e3f1f0f03",
      "memberVersion": "5.5.0"
    }
  ],
  "clientCount": 0,
  "allConnectionCount": 0,
  "state": "ACTIVE",
  "version": "5.5"
}
----

=== Retrieving Cluster State

> You can make a GET request to endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state` to retrieve your cluster state.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can send a `GET` request to the endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state` to retrieve the state of your cluster.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

Example request using cURL:

[source,shell]
----
curl -X 'GET' \
  'http://localhost:8443/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer <JWT Token>'
----

It returns the following response if successful:

[source,json]
----
{
  "state": "ACTIVE"
}
----

=== Changing Cluster State

> You can make a POST request to endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state` to change your cluster state. You should provide new state within the request body in JSON format. Valid states are `ACTIVE, NO_MIGRATION, FROZEN, PASSIVE`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can send a `POST` request to the endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state` to change the state of your cluster. You must provide the new state within the request body in the JSON format. Valid states are `ACTIVE`, `NO_MIGRATION`, `FROZEN`, `PASSIVE`.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0

Example request using cURL:

[source,shell]
----
curl -X 'POST' \
  'http://localhost:8443/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cluster/state' \
  -H 'Authorization: Bearer Bearer <JWT Token>' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "state": "PASSIVE"
}'
----

* It returns 200 response without body if successful.
* It returns 400 response if provided state is not a valid cluster state. For example:

[source,json]
----
{
  "statusCode": 400,
  "message": "FOOBAR is not a valid ClusterState. Please provide one of the valid values: [ACTIVE, NO_MIGRATION, FROZEN, PASSIVE]"
}
----

=== Destroying a CP Group

> You can make a DELETE request to endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cp/groups/{group-name}` to unconditionally destroy the given active CP group.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can send a `DELETE` request to the endpoint at `/hazelcast/rest/api/v1/cp/groups/{group-name}` to unconditionally destroy the given active CP group.
```

Author: Fixed at https://github.com/hazelcast/hz-docs/pull/1097/commits/c9f1d1641dbe06821715669b42110e4828ebcbf0
